---
title: "Survey results: Bioinformatics in Montenegro"
author: Katarina Elez
categories: News
tags: [survey, BioINForming]
classes: wide
header:
  teaser: "/assets/images/news-default.png"
  og_image: "/assets/images/news-default.png"
---

We conducted a survey on bioinformatics among young students in Montenegro in the Autumn of 2022. The goal was to obtain information about their background knowledge and their interest in bioinformatics.

## Sample

We received 105 responses, 74.3% from female respondents and 25.7% from male respondents.

The majority of the responses came from the southern region of the country (60%), while responses from the central and the northern region were less common (12.3% and 27.6%, respectively).

The majority of the respondents attended the Gymnasium (61%), followed by the Secondary professional school (33.3%) and the undergraduate university studies (5.7%).

## Attitude towards mathematics, natural sciences and computer science

When asked about the continuation of their studies, 29.5% of respondents expressed an interest towards mathematics / computer science or natural sciences (12.4% and 17.1%, respectively).

Despite their interest, only 21.9% respondents think that these fields are significantly promoted at their school or university and 54.3% do not have an opportunity to hear about practical uses of these fields often (at least once in 6 months).

## Attitude towards bioinformatics

Around two thirds (67.6 %) of respondents had never heard about bioinformatics before.

When asked to self-assess their knowledge in relevant background areas, respondents were on average most confident about maths (3.9/5), followed by molecular biology (3.6/5), chemistry (3.5/5) and programming (3.2/5). Importantly, they were on average very confident about their knowledge of English (4.4/5) and 89.5% stated that they would be able to follow a training session in this language with none to minor difficulties.

Among the listed topics, respondents on average expressed the highest interest for molecular biology (3.6/5) and drug design (3.6/5), followed by programming (3.5/5), biochemistry / biophysics (3.2/5), clinical bioinformatics (3.2/5), genome analysis (3.1/5), genome evolution (3/5) and machine learning (3/5).

Among the listed bioinformatics educational formats of different lengths, respondents on average expressed the highest interest for a 3-day seminar (3.7/5), followed by a single introductory session (3.6/5) and a 7-day training school (3.5/5).

A pleasant result of the survey was that one third of the respondents expressed the highest possible interest towards a 7-day training school and a 3-day seminar in bioinformatics.




